---
title: "Recurring Use Token"
linkTitle: "Recurring Use Token"
date: 2023-07-17T07:28:16-05:00
description: >
  Unlike [Anonymous Users]({{< ref Anonymous-users.md>}}), these users are registered on the website, allowing you to identify them and associate their card information for subsequent purchases without re-entering the details.
weight: 20
tags: ["subtopic"]
---

The client receives a _CommerceToken_ after registering their card, which can be used for future transactions. Below are the steps to purchase as a registered user on the website.

## Create a Customer {#create-a-customer}
The first step is to create the customer in Bamboo Payment. To do this, you need to send a **POST** request to the following URLs depending on your environment.

* **Production**: `https://api.bamboopayment.com/v3/api/customer`
* **Stage**: `https://api.stage.bamboopayment.com/v3/api/customer`

### Request Parameters {#request-parameters}

| Parameter | Type | Mandatory? | Description |
|---|---|:-:|---|
| `Email` | `string` | Yes | Customer's email address. |
| `FirstName` | `string` | Yes | Customer's first name. |
| `LastName` | `string` | Yes | Customer's last name. |
| `DocumentType` | `string` | Yes | Customer's document type. Find possible values in the Document Types table based on the [country](/en/docs/payment-methods.html). |
| `DocumentNumber` | `string` | Yes | Customer's document number. |
| `Owner` | `string` | No | Indicates whether the user is anonymous or if the merchant or we registered them.<br>Possible values:<ul style="margin-bottom: initial;"><li>_Our_</li><li>_Commerce_. This is the default value.</li><li>_Anonymous_</li></ul>|
| `PhoneNumber` | `string` | Yes | Customer's contact phone number. |
| `Address` | `object` | Yes | This parameter is the customer's billing address. |
| `Address`→`AddressType` | `string` | Yes | Type of address. |
| `Address`→`Country` | `string` | Yes | Country of the address. |
| `Address`→`State` | `string` | Yes | State of the address. |
| `Address`→`City` | `string` | Yes | City of the address. |
| `Address`→`AddressDetail` | `string` | Yes | Additional address information, such as street, number, etc. |

#### Request Example {#request-example}

{{< highlight json >}}
{{< Payins/V3/Customers/create_customer_request >}}
{{< /highlight >}}

### Response Parameters {#response-parameters}
The response object returns the newly created customer's information or any errors that may have occurred. The `Response.CustomerId` parameter contains the customer ID generated by the API, which can be used to query or update the customer.

Use the following parameters for additional operations on customers:

<!--* `CaptureURL`: URL for capturing card data. Open this URL in an iframe to begin capturing sensitive data. For more information, see [Invoking the Card Enrollment Form](#invoking-the-card-enrollment).-->
* `UniqueID`: A temporary unique identifier used to register external payment methods. Each time you query the customer information, a new identifier is provided. For more details, see [Invoking the Card Enrollment Form](#invoking-the-card-enrollment).
* `URL`: URL for querying customer information. For more details, see [Get a Customer](#get-a-customer).

#### Response Example {#response-example}

{{< highlight json >}}
{{< Payins/V3/Customers/get_customer_notoken >}}
{{< /highlight >}}

### Customer Operations {#customer-operations}
Once a user is created, you can perform operations to retrieve or update their information.

#### Get a Customer {#get-a-customer}
You can retrieve customer information using their ID or email address.

To do this, send a **GET** request to the following URLs based on your environment.

* **Production**: `https://api.bamboopayment.com/v3/api/customer`
* **Stage**: `https://api.stage.bamboopayment.com/v3/api/customer`

<div id="shortTable"></div>

| | Endpoint |
|---|---|---|
| Get by _customer email address_ | `/email/{{EmailAddress}}` |

The response includes a list containing the same object returned when [creating the customer](#response-example).

#### Update a Customer {#update-a-customer}
To update a customer's information, send a **POST** request to the following URLs based on your environment.

* **Production**: `https://api.bamboopayment.com/v1/api/customer/{{customer-id}}/update`
* **Stage**: `https://api.stage.bamboopayment.com/v1/api/customer/{{customer-id}}/update`

Where `{{customer-id}}` is the ID generated when the user was created. Include the [parameters](#request-parameters) you wish to update in the request body.

The response includes the same object returned when [creating the customer](#response-example).

{{% alert title="Alert" color="warning"%}}
The **Update** customer operation has not yet been migrated to version 3 of the API.
{{% /alert %}}

## Capturing Card Information {#capture-the-card-data}
The next step is to obtain the customer's card token. You can either invoke the card enrollment form or use [Direct Tokenization]({{< ref "Direct-Tokenization.md" >}}) if your business complies with PCI standards.

{{% alert title="Info" color="info"%}}
If using an alternative payment method identifier, this step is not required, and you should include **PaymentMethod**.
{{% /alert %}}

### Invoking the Card Enrollment Form {#invoking-the-card-enrollment}
{{% alert title="Info" color="info"%}}
If using the Legacy version of the card capture form, refer to the steps [here]({{< ref "Legacy-Registered-users.md" >}}).
{{% /alert %}}
To invoke the capture form for a previously created customer, follow these steps:

1. Obtain the customer's **uniqueId** by executing the [Get Customer](#get-a-customer) operation.
2. Invoke the card capture form, sending the `uniqueId` field within the `metadata` object of the `customer` as described in the [Customer Information](../../../../en/docs/forms.html##customer-information) section.

## Creating a Basic Purchase {#using-direct-tokenization}
Send the newly obtained token from the browser or mobile app to the application server to create the purchase transaction.

From the server, invoke the [Create a Purchase]({{< ref Purchase_V3.md >}}#request-parameters) method, including the `Purchase` object with the token and additional transaction details.
If operating with a previously created customer and a saved card through the [card capture form](#invoking-the-card-enrollment) or [direct tokenization](#capture-the-card-data), invoke the [Get Customer](#get-a-customer) function and obtain the **CommerceToken** of the selected card, detailed within the **PaymentProfile** object. Then, send the purchase with the obtained value.

### Example of a Customer with a Saved Card Response {#get-csutomer-ct}
{{< highlight json >}}
{{< Payins/V3/Customers/get_customer_CTtoken >}}
{{< /highlight >}}

### Request Example {#request-example}

{{< highlight json >}}
{{< Payins/V3/CreatePurchase/purchase_CT >}}
{{< /highlight >}}
<br>

## One-Click Recurring Purchases {#recurring-purchases-in-one-click}
Once customers are successfully registered, some cards allow certain transactions without requiring a Verification Code (CVV), enabling a smoother user experience (one-click payments). <br> In these cases, purchases can be submitted directly without requesting additional customer information, as explained in the previous section, [Basic Purchase](#create-a-basic-purchase).

The Verification Code must be requested whenever transactions are made with cards that do not allow this feature, as it cannot be stored on our servers.
<br>
To invoke the Verification Code, follow the steps described in this [section](../../../../en/docs/forms.html#cvv-form).
